Add documentation for gateway topology api (#7242)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/index.md

weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,gateway]
---

## (Experimental) Configuring network topologies

Istio provides the ability to manage settings like X-Forwarded-For (XFF) and X-Forwarded-Client-Cert (XFCC), which are
dependent on how the gateway workloads are deployed. This is as currently an experimental feature.

Many users choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways in using various network topologies
(e.g. behind Cloud Load Balancers, a self-managed Load Balancer or directly expose the
Istio ingress gateway to the internet). As such, these topologies require different ingress gateway configurations for
transporting correct client attributes like IP/certs to the workloads running in the cluster.

Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be configured by using `MeshConfig` during Istio
*installation* or by adding a pod annotation.

To simplify configuring network topology during installation create a single YAML file to pass to `istioctl`:

{{< text yaml >}}
cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}

> If Istio ingress gateway was already running prior to application of the MeshConfig you will need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Istio ingress gateway workload was already running prior to application of the MeshConfig you will need
```

to restart any Istio ingress gateway pods.
{{< /warning >}}

Both of the settings discussed can also be configured using the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec

> of your Istio ingress gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of your Istio ingress gateway deployment.
```

{{< text yaml >}}
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      "proxy.istio.io/config": '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
{{< /text >}}

### Configuring X-Forwarded-For Headers

Many applications, both old and new, rely on client attributes, such as X-Forward-For header,
to be forwarded by reverse proxies in a request. However, due to the variety of network
topologies Istio can be deployed in, it is required to set the number of trusted proxies deployed in front
of the Istio gateway proxy so that the client address can be extracted correctly.

To set the number of trusted proxies add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

For example, if you have a cloud based LB, a reverse proxy and then the Istio gateway proxy
then `<VALUE>` would be 2.

{{< warning >}}

> Note that all the proxies in front need of Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the X-Forwarded-For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that all the proxies in front of the Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the X-Forwarded-For
```

> headers at each hop. If the number of entries in X-Forwarded-For header is less than the number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
headers at every hop. If the number of entries in X-Forwarded-For header is less than the number of
```

> trusted hops configured, Envoy falls back to using the immediate downstream address as the trusted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trusted proxies configured, Envoy falls back to using the immediate downstream address as the trusted
```

client address. Please refer to [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)
to understand how X-Forwarded-For headers and trusted client addresses are determined.
{{< /warning >}}

See [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)

> for more information about this capability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for more information about this functionality.
```

#### Example using XFF capability with httpbin

> 1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either through `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation.

Reviewer: Can you add the config snippet here?

Author: added

    namespace/httpbin labeled
    {{< /text >}}
4. Deploy `httpbin` in the `httpbin` namespace
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    {{< /text >}}
5. Deploy a gateway associated with `httpbin`
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin-gateway.yaml
    {{< /text >}}
6. Set a local `$GATEWAY_URL` environmental variable based on your Istio ingress gateway's IP address
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    {{< /text >}}
7. Run the following `curl` command to verify the `X-Envoy-External-Address` and `X-Forwarded-For` are set correctly.
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -H 'X-Forwarded-For: 56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3' $GATEWAY_URL/get?show_env=true
    {
      "args": {
        "show_env": "true"
      },
      "headers": {
        ...
        "X-Envoy-External-Address": "72.9.5.6",
        ...
        "X-Forwarded-For": "56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3, <YOUR GATEWAY IP>",
        ...
      },
      ...
    }    
    {{< /text >}}

> 

Reviewer: Note that the `X-Envoy-External-Address` is set to the "second" from last address in `X-Forwarded-For` header as per your `numTrustedProxies` setting. Additionally, the gateway workload appends its IP in the `X-Forwarded-For` header before forwarding it to the upstream `httpbin` workload.

Author: Added

### Configuring X-Forwarded-Client-Cert Headers

> From [Envoy's documenation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From [Envoy's documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
```

regarding XFCC:
> x-forwarded-client-cert (XFCC) is a proxy header which indicates certificate information of part or all of the clients
> or proxies that a request has flowed through, on its way from the client to the server. A proxy may choose to
> sanitize/append/forward the XFCC header before proxying the request.

To configure how XFCC Headers are handled add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        forwardClientCertDetails: <ENUM_VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

where `ENUM_VALUE` can be of the following type.

| ENUM_VALUE          |                                                                                                                                |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | SANITIZE            | Do not send the XFCC header to the next hop. This is the default value.                                                        |

Reviewer: In Istio we also have `UNDEFINED`

Additionally, let's specify that the default value for ingress gateway is `SANITIZE_SET`

Author: added and clarified

---
title: Configuring Gateway Network Topology (Development)
description: How to configure gateway network topology (Development).
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,gateway]
---

> ## (Development) Configuring network topologies

Reviewer 2: Why it is tagged as Development?  would be good to explain to readers

Reviewer: Yeah, I will add a line. Basically, we will move the API around as we haven't settled on the correct UX.

Author: I added this as "Development" is a feature stage and "Experimental" is not. I can update this to explain what Development means.

Author: Hopefully this makes more sense now as I've linked to the feature stages found in istio/community.

Istio provides the ability to manage settings like [X-Forwarded-For](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7239)
([XFF](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)
and [X-Forwarded-Client-Cert](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
(XFCC),  which are dependent on how the gateway workloads are deployed. This is currently an in-development feature.

Many users choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways in using various network topologies
(e.g. behind Cloud Load Balancers, a self-managed Load Balancer or directly expose the
Istio ingress gateway to the Internet). As such, these topologies require different ingress gateway configurations for
transporting correct client attributes like IP addresses and certificates to the workloads running in the cluster.

> 

Reviewer 2: would be good to list or refer to a doc to list all gateway topologies we support.

Reviewer: That's an interesting ask, we support all (or any) as long as you have the correct hops configured and proxies in the front are HTTP proxy appending to XFF correctly. Not sure if a list would be appropriate here, wdyt?

Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be configured by using `MeshConfig` during Istio

> *installation* or by adding a pod annotation.

Reviewer 2: is mesh config only for global change?

Reviewer: Yes, "mesh (or proxy) config" is global for all Gateway workloads and you can use annotations to customize per GW workload. We can clarify it in the doc.

> *installation* or by adding a pod annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*installation* or by adding a pod annotation. Note that the `Meshconfig` configuration is used as a global setting for all gateway workloads where as pod annotations can be used to override the global setting on a per-workload basis.
```

To simplify configuring network topology during installation create a single YAML file to pass to `istioctl`:

{{< text yaml >}}
cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}
If Istio ingress gateway was already running prior to application of the `MeshConfig` you will need
to restart any Istio ingress gateway pods.
{{< /warning >}}

Both of the settings discussed can also be configured using the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec
of your Istio ingress gateway.

{{< text yaml >}}
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      "proxy.istio.io/config": '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
{{< /text >}}

### Configuring X-Forwarded-For Headers

> Many applications, both old and new, rely on client attributes, such as X-Forward-For header,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications rely on client attributes, such as `X-Forward-For` header,
```

to be forwarded by reverse proxies in a request. However, due to the variety of network
topologies Istio can be deployed in, it is required to set the number of trusted proxies deployed in front
of the Istio gateway proxy so that the client address can be extracted correctly.

To set the number of trusted proxies add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

> For example, if you have a cloud based LB, a reverse proxy and then the Istio gateway proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you have a cloud based Load Balancer, a reverse proxy and then the Istio gateway proxy
```

---
title: Configuring Gateway Network Topology (Experimental)

> description: How to configure gateway network topology (experimental).

Reviewer 3: instead of experimental, consider using (development) as per feature status pages. Documenting in-development work is fine by me, and nothing in our governance documentation prohibits it. I think documentation before alpha is good practice, although the terminology should match.

Author: Done.

weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,gateway]
---

## (Experimental) Configuring network topologies

> Istio provides the ability to manage settings like X-Forwarded-For (XFF) and X-Forwarded-Client-Cert (XFCC), which are

Reviewer 3: I link to what an XFF an XFCC (IETF RFCs if any exist or any other documentation)would be immensely helpful.

Author: Added.

dependent on how the gateway workloads are deployed. This is currently an experimental feature.

> Many users choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways in using various network topologies

Reviewer 3: Many users? How do you know that?

Instead, i'd go with

You may choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways using various network topologies

Author: Done

(e.g. behind Cloud Load Balancers, a self-managed Load Balancer or directly expose the

> Istio ingress gateway to the internet). As such, these topologies require different ingress gateway configurations for

Reviewer 3: internet->Internet

> transporting correct client attributes like IP/certs to the workloads running in the cluster.

Reviewer 3: IP/Certs should not use a slash. Perhaps reword to something like "client attributes including IP addresses and certificates"

> Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers can be configured by using `MeshConfig` during Istio

Reviewer 3: can be/is

Author: done

*installation* or by adding a pod annotation.

To simplify configuring network topology during installation create a single YAML file to pass to `istioctl`:

{{< text yaml >}}
cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> {{< warning >}}

Reviewer 3: change to idea. This would diminish the strength of the callout for warning since its really a suggestion. A warning is something like "your data will be permanently lost if you proceed." 👍

Author: Fixed.

If Istio ingress gateway was already running prior to application of the `MeshConfig` you will need
to restart any Istio ingress gateway pods.
{{< /warning >}}

Both of the settings discussed can also be configured using the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec
of your Istio ingress gateway.

{{< text yaml >}}
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      "proxy.istio.io/config": '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
{{< /text >}}

### Configuring X-Forwarded-For Headers

> Many applications, both old and new, rely on client attributes, such as X-Forward-For header,

Reviewer 3: The intro, Many applications, both old and new, seems pointless to me. Why not say "Applications rely on client attributes such as X-Forward-For.

Also X-Forward-For should be in backticks throughout this document.

Author: Done for both contributions.

to be forwarded by reverse proxies in a request. However, due to the variety of network
topologies Istio can be deployed in, it is required to set the number of trusted proxies deployed in front
of the Istio gateway proxy so that the client address can be extracted correctly.

To set the number of trusted proxies add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

> For example, if you have a cloud based LB, a reverse proxy and then the Istio gateway proxy

Reviewer 3: LB->load balancer

Author: done

then `<VALUE>` would be 2.

> {{< warning >}}

Reviewer 3: idea instead of warning please

Note that all the proxies in front need of Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the X-Forwarded-For
headers at each hop. If the number of entries in X-Forwarded-For header is less than the number of
trusted hops configured, Envoy falls back to using the immediate downstream address as the trusted

> client address. Please refer to [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)

Reviewer 3: this x-forward-for link should be right at the front of the usage of x-forward-for

Author: Done

to understand how X-Forwarded-For headers and trusted client addresses are determined.
{{< /warning >}}

See [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)
for more information about this capability.

> #### Example using XFF capability with httpbin

Reviewer 3: XFF = X-Forward-For? if so, please expand the acronym

1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either through `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If using `MeshConfig`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml
      apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
      kind: IstioOperator
      spec:
        meshConfig:
          defaultConfig:
            gatewayTopology:

>               numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>

Reviewer: This should be 2 installed of VALUE here

      EOF
    $ istioctl manifest apply -f topology.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Create `httpbin` namespace

Reviewer 3: these steps need either a colon or period. I don't recall what the current practice is for our documentation. It used to be `:` but that may have changed. you can find out by reviewing other more recent documentation with steps that have gone through review.

Author: I've looked at a few other PRs, but there's still a mix of ':' and '.'. @frankbu?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Create `httpbin` namespace with the following command:
```

Reviewer 4: @jacob-delgado My suggestion follows the best practice.
Please let readers know in the text that the code-block is a command, and end each step with a colon (`:`).

Author: I did this for all steps. Thanks Rigs!

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httpbin
    namespace/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

1. Set the `istio-injection` label to `enabled` for sidecar injection

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label --overwrite namespace httpbin istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httpbin labeled
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy `httpbin` in the `httpbin` namespace

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy a gateway associated with `httpbin`

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin-gateway.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Set a local `$GATEWAY_URL` environmental variable based on your Istio ingress gateway's IP address

Reviewer 3: remove `$`.

apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

For example, if you have a cloud based Load Balancer, a reverse proxy and then the Istio gateway proxy
then `<VALUE>` would be 2.

{{< idea >}}
Note that all the proxies in front need of Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the `X-Forwarded-For`
headers at each hop. If the number of entries in `X-Forwarded-For` header is less than the number of
trusted hops configured, Envoy falls back to using the immediate downstream address as the trusted
client address. Please refer to [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)
to understand how `X-Forwarded-For` headers and trusted client addresses are determined.
{{< /idea >}}

#### Example using X-Forwarded-For capability with httpbin

1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either through `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If using `MeshConfig` run the following command to create a file named `topology.yaml` and apply it to your cluster:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ cat << EOF > topology.yaml
```

      apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
      kind: IstioOperator
      spec:
        meshConfig:
          defaultConfig:
            gatewayTopology:
              numTrustedProxies: 2
      EOF

>     $ istioctl manifest apply -f topology.yaml

Reviewer: Add a note about picking the correct profile here.

Reviewer: Add a step about restarting Gateway pod for this to take effect.

Author: That's only true if you have an already existing gateway pod, right? I can put that in.

Reviewer: yes

Author: done

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -H 'X-Forwarded-For: 56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3' $GATEWAY_URL/get?show_env=true
    {
      "args": {
        "show_env": "true"
      },
      "headers": {
        ...
        "X-Envoy-External-Address": "72.9.5.6",
        ...
        "X-Forwarded-For": "56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3, <YOUR GATEWAY IP>",
        ...
      },
      ...
    }
    {{< /text >}}

Note that the `X-Envoy-External-Address` is set to the "second" from last address in `X-Forwarded-For` header
as per your `numTrustedProxies` setting. Additionally, the gateway workload appends its IP in the
`X-Forwarded-For` header before forwarding it to the upstream httpbin workload.

### Configuring X-Forwarded-Client-Cert Headers

From [Envoy's documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
regarding XFCC:
> x-forwarded-client-cert (XFCC) is a proxy header which indicates certificate information of part or all of the clients
> or proxies that a request has flowed through, on its way from the client to the server. A proxy may choose to

> > sanitize/append/forward the XFCC header before proxying the request.

Reviewer: This is not rendering properly.

---
title: Configuring Gateway Network Topology (Development)
description: How to configure gateway network topology (Development).
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,gateway]
---

## Configuring network topologies (Development)

{{< idea >}}
This feature is actively in [development](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/FEATURE-LIFECYCLE.md) and is
considered `pre-alpha`.
{{</ idea >}}

Istio provides the ability to manage settings like [X-Forwarded-For](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for) (XFF)
and [X-Forwarded-Client-Cert](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
(XFCC), which are dependent on how the gateway workloads are deployed. This is currently an in-development feature. For more

> information on X-Forwarded-For, see the IETF's [RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7239).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
information on `X-Forwarded-For`, see the IETF's [RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7239).
```

You might choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways in various network topologies
(e.g. behind Cloud Load Balancers, a self-managed Load Balancer or directly expose the
Istio ingress gateway to the Internet). As such, these topologies require different ingress gateway configurations for
transporting correct client attributes like IP addresses and certificates to the workloads running in the cluster.

Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers is managed via `MeshConfig` during Istio
installation or by adding a pod annotation. Note that the `Meshconfig` configuration is a global setting for all gateway workloads, while pod annotations override the global setting on a per-workload basis.

To simplify configuring network topology during installation, create a single YAML file to pass to `istioctl`:

> {{< text yaml >}}
> cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml

Reviewer 5: I don't think is right. Should be:
```suggestion
{{< text bash >}}
$ cat <<EOF > topology.yaml
```

{{< /idea >}}

You can configure both of these settings using the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec
of your Istio ingress gateway.

{{< text yaml >}}
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      "proxy.istio.io/config": '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
{{< /text >}}

### Configuring X-Forwarded-For Headers

Applications rely on reverse proxies to forward client attributes in a request, such as `X-Forward-For` header. However, due to the variety of network
topologies Istio can be deployed in, you must set the number of trusted proxies deployed in front
of the Istio gateway proxy, so that the client address can be extracted correctly.

To set the number of trusted proxies, add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

For example, if you have a cloud based Load Balancer, a reverse proxy, and an Istio gateway proxy,
then `<VALUE>` would be 2.

{{< idea >}}

> Note that all proxies in front of the Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the `X-Forwarded-For`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note that all proxies in front of the Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append to the `X-Forwarded-For`
```

> headers at each hop. If the number of entries in `X-Forwarded-For` header is less than the number of

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
header at each hop. If the number of entries in the `X-Forwarded-For` header is less than the number of
```

trusted hops configured, Envoy falls back to using the immediate downstream address as the trusted
client address. Please refer to the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)
to understand how `X-Forwarded-For` headers and trusted client addresses are determined.
{{< /idea >}}

#### Example using X-Forwarded-For capability with httpbin

> 1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either through `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If you are using `MeshConfig`, run the following command to create a file named `topology.yaml` and apply it to your cluster:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either using `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If you are using `MeshConfig`, run the following command to create a file named `topology.yaml` and apply it to your cluster:
```

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ cat << EOF > topology.yaml

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    $ cat <<EOF > topology.yaml
```

      apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
      kind: IstioOperator
      spec:
        meshConfig:
          defaultConfig:
            gatewayTopology:
              numTrustedProxies: 2

>       EOF

Reviewer 5: suggest unindent

Author: Remove indentation and verified it still looks good via `make serve`

Author: Looking more closely and the numbers were wrong. By also unindenting it doesn't permit the user to use the "Copy" button to paste this into their terminal. Adding back.

>       apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
>       kind: IstioOperator
>       spec:
>         meshConfig:
>           defaultConfig:
>             gatewayTopology:
>               numTrustedProxies: 2
>       EOF

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    spec:
      meshConfig:
        defaultConfig:
          gatewayTopology:
            numTrustedProxies: 2
    EOF
```

    $ istioctl manifest apply -f topology.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< idea >}}
    If you previously installed an Istio ingress gateway, restart all ingress gateway pods after step 1.
    {{</ idea >}}

> 1. Create an `httpbin` namespace, using the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Create an `httpbin` namespace:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httpbin
    namespace/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Set the `istio-injection` label to `enabled` for sidecar injection, using the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Set the `istio-injection` label to `enabled` for sidecar injection:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label --overwrite namespace httpbin istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httpbin labeled
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy `httpbin` in the `httpbin` namespace, using the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Deploy `httpbin` in the `httpbin` namespace:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy a gateway associated with `httpbin`, using the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Deploy a gateway associated with `httpbin`:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin-gateway.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Set a local `GATEWAY_URL` environmental variable based on your Istio ingress gateway's IP address, using the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Set a local `GATEWAY_URL` environmental variable based on your Istio ingress gateway's IP address:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Run the following `curl` command to verify the `X-Envoy-External-Address` and `X-Forwarded-For` are set correctly, using the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Run the following `curl` command to verify the `X-Envoy-External-Address` and `X-Forwarded-For` are set correctly:
```

Author: See https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/7242#discussion_r424764235

I can make your suggestion if you still want it to be done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -H 'X-Forwarded-For: 56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3' $GATEWAY_URL/get?show_env=true
    {
      "args": {
        "show_env": "true"
      },
      "headers": {
        ...
        "X-Envoy-External-Address": "72.9.5.6",
        ...
        "X-Forwarded-For": "56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3, <YOUR GATEWAY IP>",
        ...
      },
      ...
    }
    {{< /text >}}

> Note that the `X-Envoy-External-Address` is set to the "second" from last address in `X-Forwarded-For` header

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note that the `X-Envoy-External-Address` is set to the "second" from last address in the `X-Forwarded-For` header
```

| `UNDEFINED`           | Field is not set.                                                                                                              |
| `SANITIZE`            | Do not send the XFCC header to the next hop. This is the default value for a gateway.                                          |
| `FORWARD_ONLY`        | When the client connection is mTLS (Mutual TLS), forward the XFCC header in the request.                                       |
| `APPEND_FORWARD`      | When the client connection is mTLS, append the client certificate information to the request’s XFCC header and forward it.     |
| `SANITIZE_SET`        | When the client connection is mTLS, reset the XFCC header with the client certificate information and send it to the next hop. |
| `ALWAYS_FORWARD_ONLY` | Always forward the XFCC header in the request, regardless of whether the client connection is mTLS.                            |

See the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)

> for examples on using this capability.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
for examples of using this capability.
```

---
title: Configuring Gateway Network Topology (Development)
description: How to configure gateway network topology (Development).
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,gateway]
---

## Configuring network topologies (Development)

{{< idea >}}
This feature is actively in [development](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/FEATURE-LIFECYCLE.md) and is
considered `pre-alpha`.
{{</ idea >}}

> Istio provides the ability to manage settings like [X-Forwarded-For](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7239)
> ([XFF](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)

Reviewer 5: The first link doesn't seem right, the link to the envoy x-forwarded-for is inconsistent with the x-forwarded-client-cert, and there is a missing close paren `)` in the sentence. Is this what you want?
```suggestion
Istio provides the ability to manage settings like [X-Forwarded-For](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for) (XFF)
```

Author: I updated it and will have Adam review it. Thanks.

(XFCC), which are dependent on how the gateway workloads are deployed. This is currently an in-development feature. For more

> information on X-Forwarded-For see the IETF's [RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7239).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
information on X-Forwarded-For, see the IETF's [RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7239).
```

Author: done

> You may choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways in using various network topologies

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You might choose to deploy Istio ingress gateways in various network topologies
```

Author: done

(e.g. behind Cloud Load Balancers, a self-managed Load Balancer or directly expose the
Istio ingress gateway to the Internet). As such, these topologies require different ingress gateway configurations for
transporting correct client attributes like IP addresses and certificates to the workloads running in the cluster.

Configuration of XFF and XFCC headers is managed via `MeshConfig` during Istio

> *installation* or by adding a pod annotation. Note that the `Meshconfig` configuration is used as a global setting for all gateway workloads where as pod annotations can be used to override the global setting on a per-workload basis.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
installation or by adding a pod annotation. Note that the `Meshconfig` configuration is a global setting for all gateway workloads, while pod annotations override the global setting on a per-workload basis.
```

Author: done

> To simplify configuring network topology during installation create a single YAML file to pass to `istioctl`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To simplify configuring network topology during installation, create a single YAML file to pass to `istioctl`:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
cat <<'EOF' > topology.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< idea >}}

> If Istio ingress gateway was already running prior to application of the `MeshConfig` you will need
> to restart any Istio ingress gateway pods.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If Istio ingress gateway was already running prior to application of the `MeshConfig`, restart any Istio ingress gateway pods.
```

{{< /idea >}}

> Both of the settings discussed can also be configured using the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec
> of your Istio ingress gateway.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can configure both of these settings using the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation to the Pod spec
of your Istio ingress gateway.
```

{{< text yaml >}}
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      "proxy.istio.io/config": '{"gatewayTopology" : { "numTrustedProxies": 2 } }'
{{< /text >}}

### Configuring X-Forwarded-For Headers

> Applications rely on client attributes, such as `X-Forward-For` header,
> to be forwarded by reverse proxies in a request. However, due to the variety of network
> topologies Istio can be deployed in, it is required to set the number of trusted proxies deployed in front
> of the Istio gateway proxy so that the client address can be extracted correctly.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Applications rely on reverse proxies to forward client attributes in a request, such as `X-Forward-For` header. However, due to the variety of network
topologies Istio can be deployed in, you must set the number of trusted proxies deployed in front
of the Istio gateway proxy, so that the client address can be extracted correctly.
```

> To set the number of trusted proxies add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To set the number of trusted proxies, add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      gatewayTopology:
        numTrustedProxies: <VALUE>
{{< /text >}}

> For example, if you have a cloud based Load Balancer, a reverse proxy and then the Istio gateway proxy
> then `<VALUE>` would be 2.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
For example, if you have a cloud based Load Balancer, a reverse proxy, and an Istio gateway proxy,
then `<VALUE>` would be 2.
```

{{< idea >}}

> Note that all the proxies in front need of Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the `X-Forwarded-For`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Note that all proxies in front of the Istio gateway proxy must parse HTTP traffic and append the `X-Forwarded-For`
```

headers at each hop. If the number of entries in `X-Forwarded-For` header is less than the number of
trusted hops configured, Envoy falls back to using the immediate downstream address as the trusted

> client address. Please refer to [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
client address. Please refer to the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-for)
```

to understand how `X-Forwarded-For` headers and trusted client addresses are determined.
{{< /idea >}}

#### Example using X-Forwarded-For capability with httpbin

> 1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either through `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If using `MeshConfig` run the following command to create a file named `topology.yaml` and apply it to your cluster:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either through `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If you are using `MeshConfig`, run the following command to create a file named `topology.yaml` and apply it to your cluster:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat << EOF > topology.yaml
      apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
      kind: IstioOperator
      spec:
        meshConfig:
          defaultConfig:
            gatewayTopology:
              numTrustedProxies: 2
      EOF
    $ istioctl manifest apply -f topology.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< idea >}}

>     If you have previously installed an Istio ingress gateway you must restart all ingressgateway pods after step 1.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    If you previously installed an Istio ingress gateway, restart all ingress gateway pods after step 1.
```

    {{</ idea >}}

> 1. Create `httpbin` namespace with the following command:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Create an `httpbin` namespace, using the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httpbin
    namespace/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Set the `istio-injection` label to `enabled` for sidecar injection with the following command:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Set the `istio-injection` label to `enabled` for sidecar injection, using the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label --overwrite namespace httpbin istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httpbin labeled
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy `httpbin` in the `httpbin` namespace with the following command:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Deploy `httpbin` in the `httpbin` namespace, using the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Deploy a gateway associated with `httpbin` with the following command:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Deploy a gateway associated with `httpbin`, using the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f samples/httpbin/httpbin-gateway.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Set a local `GATEWAY_URL` environmental variable based on your Istio ingress gateway's IP address with the following command:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Set a local `GATEWAY_URL` environmental variable based on your Istio ingress gateway's IP address, using the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Run the following `curl` command to verify the `X-Envoy-External-Address` and `X-Forwarded-For` are set correctly with the following command:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Run the following `curl` command to verify the `X-Envoy-External-Address` and `X-Forwarded-For` are set correctly, using the following command:
```

    $ curl -H 'X-Forwarded-For: 56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3' $GATEWAY_URL/get?show_env=true
    {
      "args": {
        "show_env": "true"
      },
      "headers": {
        ...
        "X-Envoy-External-Address": "72.9.5.6",
        ...
        "X-Forwarded-For": "56.5.6.7, 72.9.5.6, 98.1.2.3, <YOUR GATEWAY IP>",
        ...
      },
      ...
    }
    {{< /text >}}

Note that the `X-Envoy-External-Address` is set to the "second" from last address in `X-Forwarded-For` header
as per your `numTrustedProxies` setting. Additionally, the gateway workload appends its IP in the
`X-Forwarded-For` header before forwarding it to the upstream httpbin workload.

### Configuring X-Forwarded-Client-Cert Headers

From [Envoy's documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
regarding XFCC:

{{< quote >}}
x-forwarded-client-cert (XFCC) is a proxy header which indicates certificate information of part or all of the clients
or proxies that a request has flowed through, on its way from the client to the server. A proxy may choose to
sanitize/append/forward the XFCC header before proxying the request.
{{< /quote >}}

> To configure how XFCC Headers are handled add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To configure how XFCC Headers are handled, add the following to your `topology.yaml` file.
```

|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `UNDEFINED`           | Field is not set.                                                                                                              |
| `SANITIZE`            | Do not send the XFCC header to the next hop. This is the default value for a gateway.                                          |
| `FORWARD_ONLY`        | When the client connection is mTLS (Mutual TLS), forward the XFCC header in the request.                                       |
| `APPEND_FORWARD`      | When the client connection is mTLS, append the client certificate information to the request’s XFCC header and forward it.     |
| `SANITIZE_SET`        | When the client connection is mTLS, reset the XFCC header with the client certificate information and send it to the next hop. |
| `ALWAYS_FORWARD_ONLY` | Always forward the XFCC header in the request, regardless of whether the client connection is mTLS.                            |

> See [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
See the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert)
```

1. Specify `numTrustedProxies` as 2 either using `MeshConfig` or an `proxy.istop/io/config` annotation. If you are using `MeshConfig`, run the following command to create a file named `topology.yaml` and apply it to your cluster:

{{< text bash >}}
$ cat << EOF > topology.yaml
  apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
  kind: IstioOperator
  spec:
    meshConfig:
      defaultConfig:
        gatewayTopology:
          numTrustedProxies: 2
  EOF
$ istioctl manifest apply -f topology.yaml
{{< /text >}}

{{< idea >}}
If you previously installed an Istio ingress gateway, restart all ingress gateway pods after step 1.

> {{</ idea >}}

Reviewer 5: Sorry, I wasn't clear. These need to be indented 4 spaces, or the bullet numbers will reset to 1. What I meant was that I would not indent the YAML 2 extra spaces. 
```suggestion
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat << EOF > topology.yaml
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    spec:
      meshConfig:
        defaultConfig:
          gatewayTopology:
            numTrustedProxies: 2
    EOF
    $ istioctl manifest apply -f topology.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< idea >}}
    If you previously installed an Istio ingress gateway, restart all ingress gateway pods after step 1.
    {{</ idea >}}
```
